# A benchmark pipeline for LLM-based information extraction tools

This software is meant to run benchmark tests on LLM-based information extraction tools. 
It tests how accurately these tools can extract specific information from unstructured PDFs of medical documents
into formatted JSON outputs.

It is intended to work with the [LEI mockup generator](https://github.com/courtotlab/lei_mockup_-_generator) that generates synthetic medical documents.

The software will generate an experimental plan with all valid combinations of experimental parameters (Document quality levels, Input modalities, LLMs/Tools to test, etc.). It will then feed the experiments into the pipeline.

Each experiment passes through 3 phases:

1. Image extraction and OCR
2. Tool execution (i.e. the actual extraction)
3. Scoring against the reference data

The stages can execute concurrently. That is, while one experiment is in stage 2, the next experiment can concurrently undergo stage 1.

After all experiments have concluded, the scoring results are compiled into a final report sheet.


## Requirements
 * Poppler (`sudo apt install poppler-utils` or `brew install poppler`)
 * [LEI mockup generator](https://github.com/courtotlab/lei_mockup_-_generator)
 * Ollama server access (configurable)
 * OpenAI API key set in environment variable `OPENAI_API_KEY`

## Usage
### Expected inputs
The tool expects the following inputs:
  * [`data/experiment_parameters.yaml`](data/experiment_parameters.yaml) configures the exact experimental parameters to use: Document quality levels, Input modalities, LLMs/Tools to test, etc.
  * [`data/template_fields.csv`](data/template_fields.csv) defines which document templates use which extractable fields. It allows definition of directly and indirectly used values, unused values (which should not be possible to extract), and ignored values, which will be ignored in the scoring process (usually because the template does not fairly present the field value).
  * `data/1_synthetic_data`: A folder containing the synthetic documents to be tested (in the format generated by [LEI mockup generator](https://github.com/courtotlab/lei_mockup_-_generator))

Instead of requiring these exact names for the inputs, they can also be configured as command line parameters.

In addition, the `data/experiment_parameters.yaml` typically contains links to prompt files, examples of which can be found in [`data/prompts/`](data/prompts/)

### Execution
```bash
# using default parameters:
uv run bench
# or specific parameters for the inputs
uv run bench -i data/1_synthetic_data -p data/experiment_parameters.yaml -t data/template_fields.csv --ollama-host localhost:11437
```

Here are the full CLI parameters:

```text
$uv run bench --help

usage: bench [-h] [--input INPUT] [--responses RESPONSES] [--scores SCORES]
             [--parameters-file PARAMETERS_FILE] [--templates-file TEMPLATES_FILE]
             [--ollama-host OLLAMA_HOST] [--skip-cleanup]

Run data extractions for all parameter and input combinations

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --input, -i INPUT     Input directory (default: data/1_synthetic_data).
  --responses, -r RESPONSES
                        Output directory for LLM responses (default: data/2_llm_runs).
  --scores, -s SCORES   Output directory for scores (default: data/3_scores).
  --parameters-file, -p PARAMETERS_FILE
                        Path to experimental parameters JSON file (default:
                        data/experiment_parameters.yaml)
  --templates-file, -t TEMPLATES_FILE
                        Path to the CSV file holding template field classifications (default:
                        data/template_fields.csv)
  --ollama-host OLLAMA_HOST
                        The host and port for the Ollama server (default: localhost:11437).
  --skip-cleanup        Skip the input file cleaning process
```

### Runtime
Depending on how many experimental parameters are listed, execution can take a long time. Since LLM responses usually take 2-3 minutes, expect 1000 experiments to take ~40 hours or 10,000 experiments to take ~2 weeks. It is therefore recommended to run this code on a server via `nohup` or `screen`.

### Outputs
The tool will generate both intermediate files that document the results of individual experiment stages and a final report sheet. The location of these outputs is configurable through the CLI parameters above: `--responses` controls the location of the LLM response outputs; `--scores` controls the location of the detailed score sheets for each experiment.

The experimental plan will be written as a CSV spreadsheet into `data/2_llm_runs` (or whichever folder gets set via `--responses`). It will be called `llm_runs.csv`

The individual LLM outputs will be stored as JSON files labeled according to their Experiment IDs. Similarly the scoring results will be stored as CSV files in scores folder using the same labeling.

The final result spreadsheet will be written to the score folder under the name `results.csv`.


### NuExtract on local GPU/Metal
There is a branch of this project that also supports the execution of NuExtract2 on a local system. Please check out the nuextract branch.